Add documentation to loop contracts, __CPROVER_loop_entry (#8377)
diffblue/cbmc: src/goto-instrument/contracts/doc/user/contracts-loops.md

@tableofcontents

CBMC offers support for loop contracts, which includes four basic clauses:
- an _assigns_ clause for declaring the memory locations assignable by the loop,
- an _invariant_ clause for establishing safety properties,
- a _decreases_ clause for establishing termination,
- a _frees_ clause for declaring the pointers freeable by the loop.

> **The four clauses need to be declared in this sequence to avoid errors. Each loop contract should only have one assign clause that contains all assign targets.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**The four clauses need to be declared in this sequence to avoid errors. Each loop contract should only have one assigns clause that contains all assigned targets.**
```

> Loop contract is off by default. To enable CBMC to check for loop contracts, add the `--apply-loop-contract` flags at the `goto-instrument` step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Loop contracts are not used by default. To enable CBMC to check for loop contracts,
add the `--apply-loop-contract` flag at the `goto-instrument` step.
```

These clauses formally describe an abstraction of a loop for the purpose of an unbounded proof.
CBMC also provides a series of built-in constructs
to aid writing loop contracts (e.g., _history variables_ and _quantifiers_).
Note for the content of the loop, only the invariants specified in the loop contract 
will be verified, so any properties of interest should be explicitely declared in the 

> loop invariant clauses.

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand what you mean by "properties of interest should be explicitly declared" -- what is a "property" here, and how does one "declare" it?

Author: By properties of interest I mean the program behaviors that the developer is interested in verifying, and by declaring it I mean specifying these expected behaviors in the loop contract clauses. @qinheping any thoughts on how to reword this?

Reviewer 2: I would say "CBMC will prove if the loop contracts describes a sound abstraction of the loop, and use the abstraction in place of the loop."

Author: Revised!

@tableofcontents

CBMC offers support for loop contracts, which includes four basic clauses:
- an _assigns_ clause for declaring the memory locations assignable by the loop,
- an _invariant_ clause for establishing safety properties,
- a _decreases_ clause for establishing termination,

> - a _frees_ clause for declaring the pointers freeable by the loop.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> **The four clauses need to be declared in this sequence to avoid errors. Each loop contract should only have one assigns clause that contains all assigned targets.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

**The three clauses need to be declared in this sequence to avoid errors. Each loop contract should only have one assigns clause that contains all assigned targets.**
```
We don't actually have free clauses in loop contracts.

next we instrument the loops using the annotated loop contracts,
and finally we verify the instrumented GOTO binary with desired checks.

### Array Wipe Unbounded Proof
This example uses the __forall__ quantifiers hence requires solving with the  `--smt2` flag.
```c

> void array_wipe(size_t len, uint_8 * array)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
void array_wipe(__CPROVER_size_t len, char * array)
```

{  
  __CPROVER_assume(array != NULL); // pre-condition

>   for (i = 0; i < len; i++)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  for (__CPROVER_size_t i = 0; i < len; i++)
```

}
```

### Caution With Nested Loop
Due to the nature of @ref contracts-assigns, we need to be aware of the non-deterministic value of the assigned target.
In the example below, 
```c
const unsigned table[256] = {1, 2, 3, ..., 256};

void nested_loop_example() {
        unsigned t = 0;
        for( j=0; j<18; j++ )

>         __CPROVER_assigns(t, j, k) // t and k need to be included in the outer loop

Reviewer 2: Instead of "need to be included in the outer loop", it is more like "t and k are also assigns targets of the outer loop as they are assigned in the inner loop.

Author: Reflected in [22b1aa6](https://github.com/diffblue/cbmc/pull/8377/commits/22b1aa6d81fbee491b383242f11e9dc451ecae8d)

>         __CPROVER_loop_invariant(0 <= j && j <= 18 && t < 256) // t < 256 must be included in the outer loop invariant

Reviewer 2: Without the invariant clause `t < 256`, the program state for the inductive step allow `t` have arbitrary value and invalidate the inner loops' loop invariants.

Author: Reflected in [22b1aa6](https://github.com/diffblue/cbmc/pull/8377/commits/22b1aa6d81fbee491b383242f11e9dc451ecae8d)

        __CPROVER_decreases(18 - j)
        {

>             /*
>               during instrumentation, the assigns clause is equivalent to:
>               __CPROVER_havoc(t);
>               __CPROVER_havoc(j);
>             */

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
I don't think users really need to understand the idea of havocing. Instead, we should say that the inductive step is based on an arbitrary state of the assigns targets.

            for( k=0; k<48; k++ )
            __CPROVER_assigns(t, k)
            __CPROVER_loop_invariant(0 <= k && k <= 48 && t < 256)
            __CPROVER_decreases(48 - k)
            {

>               /*
>                 during loop abstraction, the assigns clause is equivalent to:
>                 __CPROVER_havoc(t);
>                 __CPROVER_havoc(k);
>               */

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

                t = table[t];
            }
        }
}
```

> If `t < 256` is not included in the outer loop invariant, the inner loop invariant `t < 256` will immediately fail at loop entry because `__CPROVER_havoc(t)` at the outer loop will update `t` with a non-deterministic value which may be greater than 256. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If `t < 256` is not included in the outer loop invariant, the inner loop invariant `t < 256` will immediately fail at loop entry because, in the inductive step of the outer loop, the assigns target `t` of the outer loop will be a non-deterministic value which can be greater than 256. With the predicate `t<256` in the outer loop's invariants will restrict `t` to be less than `256` in the proof of the inductive step of the outer loop.
```
